# Homework 1

## Problem 1
(Exercise 1.1.4 in Durrett) Suppose $\mathcal{F}_1, \mathcal{F}_2, \ldots$ are $\sigma$-fields over a sample space $\Omega$, and suppose they are nested: $\mathcal{F}_1 \subseteq \mathcal{F}_2 \subseteq \ldots$ Prove that

$$
\bigcup_{n=1}^{\infty} \mathcal{F}_n
$$

is a field. Is it necessarily a $\sigma$-field?

## Problem 2
Let $\Omega$ be an infinite set. Let $\mathcal{F}$ denote the collection of all sets $E \subseteq \Omega$ such that either $E$ or $E^c$ is finite.

(a) Is $\mathcal{F}$ a field? Prove that your answer is correct. \
(b) Is $\mathcal{F}$ a $\sigma$-field? Prove that your answer is correct.

## Problem 3
(Exercise 4.8 in Driver) Let $\Omega$ be a set, and let $\mathcal{E}_1, \mathcal{E}_2 \subseteq 2^\Omega$ be collections of subsets of $\Omega$. \
Show that $\sigma(\mathcal{E}_1) = \sigma(\mathcal{E}_2)$ if and only if $\mathcal{E}_1 \subseteq \sigma(\mathcal{E}_2)$ and $\mathcal{E}_2 \subseteq \sigma(\mathcal{E}_1)$. Give an example where $\sigma(\mathcal{E}_1) = \sigma(\mathcal{E}_2)$, but $\mathcal{E}_1 \neq \mathcal{E}_2$.

## Problem 4
(Exercise 4.9 in Driver) Verify that the Borel $\sigma$-field $\mathcal{B}(\mathbb{R})$ is generated by any of the following collections of intervals:

(a) $\mathcal{E}_1 = \{(a, \infty): a \in \mathbb{R}\}$ \
(b) $\mathcal{E}_2 = \{(a, \infty): a \in \mathbb{Q}\}$ \
(c) $\mathcal{E}_3 = \{[a, \infty): a \in \mathbb{Q}\}$

## Problem 5
Let $(\Omega, \mathcal{F}, P)$ be a probability space, and suppose $A \in \mathcal{F}$ satisfies $P(A) > 0$. Define

$$
\mathcal{F}_A := \{B \in \mathcal{F}: B \subseteq A\}, \text{ and for } B \in \mathcal{F}_A \text{ define } P_A(B) = \frac{P(B)}{P(A)}.
$$

Prove that $(A, \mathcal{F}_A, P_A)$ is a probability space.